Now what I want to do is, I'll get rid of the HTML part here again, I'll open the console again and I want to
introduce you to some built-in dialog
the object offers, so dialogs are basically pop-ups the user will see
and one very prominent one which is sometimes also used for debugging instead of console log is the alert
.
That's a function on the window object you use like this with an argument of the text you want to present
to the user
and if I then hit run, I get this little window here which tells me this is an alert, the text
I inserted here
and I can only click OK. Besides the alert which you should rarely use since there are better ways to
present messages using modals and so on,
you'll also get the confirm method.
This presents the user with a choice,
so 'are you sure' could be the question and you can also log something here because this method will
return what the user chose.
So if I now hit run, I can click OK or Cancel
and if I click OK, this will return true and if I click Cancel, this will return false and therefore I
can use this in my code to decide what I want to do next depending on the user choice.
However here again, use it with caution,
there are better and more user-friendly ways of presenting dialogs nowadays.
The last dialog I want to show you is the prompt dialog, where you can use or where you can prompt the user
for some input,
for example his name. If I run this, I can enter something and whatever I enter here of course is
returned and I can use it, I can not only print it, I could also store it in a variable of course.
So these are three built-in dialogs and as already mentioned a couple of times, really think about
using them because there are better ways, with modals which are kind of in page pop-ups which you can
style much more nicer and so on, you can basically achieve the same
but it's a better user experience,
it looks better and it feels better
and yes this is really like a 10 year old style here with those dialogs
but they are there and certainly there might be ways or situations where you need them
or where you can use them,
just be aware that there are better ways to solve this. If you're not sure what a modal is,
simply google for Javascript modal and you will find some examples or Bootstrap modals for example. Bootstrap
is a CSS library which ships with pre-defined styles, amongst them some modals which are as I said
just like pop-ups inside your page.